# WebCrypto Easy Transfer
Easy way to safely transfer strongly encrypted file embedded into an simple HTML file using native high-level cryptography capabilities of every modern Web browser.

UPDATED : The previously Google CryptoJS library was replaced by the **native [WebCrypto API](https://www.w3.org/TR/WebCryptoAPI/) library**, mostly for performance reasons. Since the memory available locally in the Web browser is limited for cryptography calculations, the container **can not process file exceeding 50Mb**.

The [WebCrypto API](https://www.w3.org/TR/WebCryptoAPI/) was created to bring these important high-level cryptography capabilities to the web. This API provides a set of JavaScript functions for manipulating low-level cryptographic operations, such as hashing, signature generation and verification, encryption and decryption, and shared secret derivation

## Preamble

This project stems from the observation that today, when anyone wants to transmit a small file to an acquaintance, the latter almost always goes through a server on the Internet, if only to make the link.

In today's world where everything is stored somewhere, on a Web giant's server or private one, of which we know nothing, how to guard against the transfer of legible sensitive data.

**Making it simple is often the best.**

The conclusion of this reflection is that since we can not guarantee the storage or the transfer by e-mail, or the use of a third party tool, as much to have a tool to apply an algorithm of encrytion/decryption to which we all have access, locally in our navigator.

This project uses encryption and decryption using **Client Side WebCrypto implementation of AES-GCM with key size of 256, IV (random). **AES is now the standard of encryption algorithm in US government agencies including [NSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Security_Agency).

## How to proceed

1. Download the empty CryptoJS HTML container from [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/naturosofts/CryptoJSEasyTransfer/master/dist/CJSET.html).
2. Open it like any HTML page in your favorite browser (Chome, Firefox, Safari, etc).
3. Enter any password and select a file to encrypt by clicking on the "ENCRYPT FILE" button.
4. After successful encryption, a new HTML file called "`Cryptojs_transfer_<timestamp>.html`" containing your encrypted file by an AES algorithm 512 key size in CBC mode will be automatically generated by your browser.
5. Save or transmit this file to its destination.
6. Reopen this file "`Cryptojs_transfer_<timestamp>.html`" at destination in your browser and enter the password used when encrypting it. To recover your decrypted file in this original form, press the "DECRYT NOW" button. The original file will be produced and downloadable by your browser.
7. You are done.
8. The same file can be used for another transfer by pressing the "NEW" button. The encrypted content of the previous transfer will be completely erased.